# Conclusions and Further Work

## Conclusion
This project looked at implementing a chatbot application and investigating the necessary technologies and tools for development. This project was centred around creating a chat application that could aid college students with frequently-asked-questions that they may have in relation to their college life. An investigation was carried out as to what the available messaging platforms were for deployment of the chatbot application, which NLP tools were available to give the chatbot the capability of responding to users intelligently and also other development tools that were highly beneficial in the development of this application. This project was successful in decoupling each feature into its own RESTful service and provided a modularity that nullified any single-point-of-failure within the application and led to a satisfactory separation of responsibility amongst the development team. Whilst, perhaps more measures could have been taken with continuous integration(CI) with the Heroku platform, to nullify build/deployment failures, it was decided amongst the team that it was outside of the scope of this project but will definitely be explored for future implementations of this system. 


## Further work
Although the development of the chatbot application was successful, there is a few alternative approaches to appraise should the opportunity arise again to recreate the project. One notable consideration is the utilisation of the a continuous integration tool like Travis CI. Travis CI allows team members team members integrate code to a repository and run automated builds. This would prove advantageous as it tests the changes that are being made and prevents defective code to be deployed to the application. Another considerable approach to the development of the chatbot is to implement a more comprehensive natural language processing agent. As there are minor conversational pieces that can be obtained from the chatbot, the conversations are mostly button driven. It would be desired to give a balance between button driven and text driven conversations. Furthermore, the ability to provide other campus information like real time class room or parking space availability would also prove to be another interesting endeavour.    
 