##What is a ChatBot?

ChatBots are computer programs that mimic conversation with people using artificial intelligence(Wong, 2016). They are usually hosted on a popular platform whereby a high volume of users are already subscribed, such as Facebook Messenger, Whatsapp, Twitter and many other popular platforms. Just like users can use these platforms to text each others(human-to-human), now with the advent of ChatBots users can now interact with pieces of software on these platforms(human-to-ChatBot) and experience a human-like conversation. A ChatBot is a service powered by rules and sometimes artificial intelligence("Chatbots Magazine", 2016). This type of technology can be driven by basic parsing of an input to analyse for keywords and output a message relevant to the input or the ChatBot can be implemented in such a way whereby the input is parsed using a Natural Language Processing(NLP) engine that can extract message components like context, ambiguity and sentiment. The NLP engine then statistically analyses the input and provides an output to the end-user based on the most likely result. ChatBots can also *learn* by implementing automated machine learning algorithms. A ChatBot, by it's very nature, will be confused by a high volume of inputs, and these inputs are difficult for developers to preempt during development. In the situation whereby the ChatBot does not understand an input, intelligent algorithms can be used to analyse the misunderstood input and suggest the most likely output based on the data gathered from parsing the input. 

//INSERT of bot conversation

This type of technology is not new. Machine learning and NLP have been a broad area of research over the last decade and many advances have been made in this field. However, services such as Facebook Messenger have recently made their platforms open to developers to allow teams to deploy and publish their ChatBots(Constine, 2016). In light of this, and because of the accessibility a large platform such as the aforementioned provides, it is an opportunity to explore this space and gain some insights into how a ChatBot works, what tools are available to make one intelligent and what are the best software engineering practices to follow in order to implement one.  


