##Origins of the ChatBot

Jospeh Weizenbaum, a professor at Harvard MIT, created the first ChatBot application in 1966. Weizenbaum’s implementation applied rule-based instructions and a now-primitive NLP engine that could decipher intents presented by open-ended inputs. Weizenbaum’s work triggered philosophical interest around the implications of intelligent computer-based agents(Dale, 2016).  In the wake of Weizenbaum’s breakthrough, several other advances where made in the field of NLP and algorithmic enhancements provided more accurate and human-like responses. Several breakthroughs have been made since, most notably, that of IBM’s ‘Watson’ project in 2006.  The Watson implementation won a game of Jeopardy against two of the worlds leading Jeopardy players and in the wake of this, this point in time became a defining moment in the timeline of NLP’s progression(Best, 2017). This milestone signified the power that a piece of software with NLP capabilities could have and the potential applications it could have in the future. These intelligent agents solidified NLP as a viable route to building intelligent software that did not have to be explicitly instructed to compute something, rather, the software could decide for itself based on the algorithmic analysis of its inputs. 

Further implementations began to emerge, mainly amongst the bigger software companies and corporations, most notably those of the Big Four. Apple’s Siri, Microsoft’s Cortana, Amazon’s Alexa and Google’s Assistant all came to fruition in lieu of Watsons success. These technologies harnessed the power of NLP through textual interfaces and intelligent voice recognition consistently with one core objective, to provide a richer and more interactive experience for their end-users. These technologies are now implemented amongst all of the aforementioned companies products and are a standard feature in todays end-user experience.



