##Current Applications

Chat bot applications today are primarily deployed to a popular messaging platform in order to sit amongst their intended target-market of users. This, not only increases penetration across operating systems and high-availability for the application, but also, provides a vehicle for the application to grow its user-base exponentially faster. For example, Facebook Messenger alone has one billion users and provides an ideal platform for developers to deploy their chat bot and have it easily accessible to anybody that has a Facebook Messenger client on their device (Dale, 2016). Existing implementations can provide services to users whereby they can provide information instantly based on the question that the chat bot is prompted. In contrast to a standard application, whereby the user would usually have to navigate to the appropriate interface in the application or search-by-text and be re-directed to another interface to obtain the information they were seeking. It is still unclear whether chat bot will prove a more advantageous option for users to obtain their data (Deo, 2016). Chat bots are still early in the stages of user-adoption and their success is also heavily dependent on users diverting from their usual method of obtaining information which may prove to be a larger hurdle than what was once surmised (Ranger, 2016). However, beyond the obvious implementations of these particular types of software, several interesting use cases have been demonstrated and have yielded positive results. One application in particular ‘Robot Lawyer’ has successfully aided its users by allowing them to appeal and/or overturn parking tickets that they have been issued. Furthermore, this chat bot is also capable of providing important information to refugees seeking asylum (Cresci, 2017). This type of application may see success quicker than a standard implementation that provides users with answers to FAQ’s. The positive publicity that a chat bot like this receives may also propel the status of chat bots and give them recognition amongst the average end-user.

