# Method
The purpose of the subsequent section is to provide a detailed understanding and comprehension of the technologies used in the aid and creation of chatbots. This will encompass a high level description and illustration of the many different technologies used to successfully implement this type of the software. Furthermore, it will also highlight the core services, architectures and programming languages used in the development and creation of chatbots. In addition, all the other aspects such as how the conversation flow aspect of this technology is achieved within a chatbot (NLP). Additionally some considerations in the selection of these different technologies will be highlighted. For clarity and to gain a better appreciation of all the aforementioned aspects that goes into the development of chatbots each core feature (technology) will be broken up into its own section. These sections will include the platform that the bot is housed in, the platform as a service (PaaS), version where the application will be run, version control and all other above mentioned services.

##Messaging Platform
One of the major and core consideration in the development of a chatbot application is the platform that the bot will go live on. There are a superabundance of chatbot platforms accessible on the web. And now big companies such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Telegram and WeChat have allowed developers to integrate chatbots into their messenger platforms. Thus making accessibility to millions of user effortless. And providing considerable amounts of documentation to detail what their platforms are capable of providing you bot.  However, each platform has its own interface, and capacities user base who are receptive to different types of products and experiences (site1). And therefore selecting the appropriate platform depends on the type of chatbot being developed and the targeted demographic the application is intended for. 

##NLP Tools
The most fundamental principle and tasks of a chatbot is to comprehend what the user’s intent is with the application. This is achieved in chatbot technologies through the use of natural language processing (NLP).NLP employs computational techniques for the purpose of learning, understanding, and producing human language content through spoken language and text (site, NLP-site). This type of technology provides the capability of understanding the user’s intent which inter drives the action of the bot. As aforementioned natural language is an integral component of a chatbot and in light of this there has be many inroads into natural language processing platforms. There are now a number of services that provide NLP as a service, platforms such as Api.ai, Google Natural Language API and Wit.ai. With the creation of the above mentioned services bot developers can now easily implement NLP into chat bot architectures. However, there are a number of considerations in the deliberation of selecting one of these services. These can include the price service, limitations and quality of the service.

##Deployment Options
A Deployment service is another aspect to be consider in the creation of this type of software. In selecting such a service there are a number of considerations that need to be considered which entail cost, CPU, RAM scalability and complexity. However, there are a number of deployment services that offer a Platform as a service (PaaS) with sufficient CPU specification which is easy to use and free of cost. Deployment facilities such as Microsoft Azure Bot Service, Google App Engine, Heroku and Docker provide this type of service. PaaS is a cloud based technology that delivers a platform as well as hardware, software and tools to allow developers to easily deploy and run chat applications over the internet (Interoute, 2017). Bot developers can take advantage and use the PaaS environments from conception, development and creation of their chatbot applications.

##Programming language
A fundamental aspect and key area to consider in the creation of a chatbot is the language it's composed in. On the selection of a programming language for a chatbot there are numerous options. However, the choice will be contingent on a number of factors. This includes the messaging platform (Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp etc.) in which the bot is hosted. As each of the aforementioned platforms have their own infrastructure for implementing this type of technology. However, bots housed in messenger platforms like Facebook Messenger and Telegram can be developed in any language due to their structure. Which provide API’s and webhooks. In addition, the knowledge and preference of the developer in a particular language and the accessibility of the libraries suitable to the bot’s design must be considered. In addition, server side languages such as PHP, Python and NodeJs (JavaScript) are typically used to write chatbots as they are a web base technologies.

##Database
A database is also a significant element in the development and creation of a chatbot. There are a number of considerations to be reflected in terms of what type of database to be incorporated within the chatbot architecture. These can include a SQL database or a no SQL database. The difference between these types of architectures are SQL databases are table based while NoSQL databases are document based. This means that SQL databases embody data in form of tables which encompasses rows of data whereas NoSQL databases are the collection of documents or wide-column stores (Thegeekstuff, 2017). Both of these databases infrastructures can be incorporated into a chatbot. However, in the deliberation of selecting the appropriate database model, there are a number of considerations to be contemplated. For instance what type of data model does each hosting platform support, the scalability, complexity and cost of each architecture. 

##Version Control
Version control software is not a key element nor an integral part in the creation of chatbots however, they are in the development of software amongst a team. A version control system is a type of software or tool to track new files or all modifications made to a code base or project and be shared via a centralised server. There are a great number of version control systems such as Git, Bazaar and Mercurial. Furthermore, this type of technology enables the hastening and simplification of the software be developed (Otte, 2016). In addition there are many benefits to be gain using this type of software. If any errors occur during the development process, version control systems provide the capability of rolling back to a stable version of the software to facilitate debugging and error checking. Moreover, this type of tool enables there to be many backups of the software on developer’s local machines and in the cloud.

