##NLP Tools

<<<<<<< HEAD
The most fundamental principle and tasks of a chat bot is to comprehend what the user’s intent is within the application. This is achieved in chat bot technologies through the use of natural language processing (NLP). NLP employs computational techniques for the purpose of learning, understanding, and producing human language content through spoken language and text (Hirschberg and Manning 2015). This type of technology provides the capability of understanding the user’s intent which drives the actions of the bot. As aforementioned, natural language is an integral component of a chat bot, and in light of this, there has be many inroads into natural language processing platforms. There are now a number of services that provide NLP as a service, platforms such as API.ai, Google Natural Language API and Wit.ai. With the creation of the above-mentioned services, bot developers can now easily implement NLP into chat bot architectures. However, there are a number of considerations in the deliberation of selecting one of these services. These may include the price, limitations and quality of the service.
=======
The most fundamental principle and tasks of a chatbot is to comprehend what the user’s intent is within the application. This is achieved in chatbot technologies through the use of natural language processing (NLP). NLP employs computational techniques for the purpose of learning, understanding, and producing human language content through spoken language and text (site, NLP-site). This type of technology provides the capability of understanding the user’s intent which drives the actions of the bot. As aforementioned, natural language is an integral component of a chatbot, and in light of this, there has be many inroads into natural language processing platforms. There are now a number of services that provide NLP as a service, platforms such as API.ai, Google Natural Language API and Wit.ai. With the creation of the above-mentioned services, bot developers can now easily implement NLP into chatbot architectures. However, there are a number of considerations in the deliberation of selecting one of these services. These may include the price, limitations and quality of the service.
>>>>>>> 1f50a89a7df95f6819534592064f15c96583cc81

<!--Add citiation in (site, NPL site)

-->
