##RESTFUL API Development

Although the development of a RESTful API is not an essential component in the creation of a chatbot. Implementing this type of service into this software’s structural design provides a simplistic method in which to consolidate exchanges amongst independent systems that might be required in a decentralised system like a chatbot (restapi-site). RESTful API’s are based on the representational state transfer (REST) technology, which is the architectural approach commonly used in web development. Furthermore, this type of technology operates on a messaging based approach meaning that they receive HTTP requests and send back HTTP responses. This is perfect for any web based application. Additionally, incorporating this type of technology into a chatbot's architecture provides modularisation and loose coupling. Moreover, there are many frameworks to be considered in the creation of RESTFUL API’s such as Node.JS, Express and Django.


### Documentation
Adequately documenting an API can have several distinct advantages. An API, by its very nature, is a service. A service by definition is “the action of helping or doing work for someone” and in most instances, a service is merited by the quality of service it provides and its ease of accessibility. A REST API is no different and it should provide accurate and quality data to the participant that requests it and should also be clearly documented so that programmers, upon reading the documentation, can interact with the REST service with ease. There are many documentation tools that can be utilised whilst developing API’s. The most popular in this category of tools are Swagger, API Blueprint and Apiary. They all provide mechanisms whereby the programmers can create websites for their API documentation, test API endpoints from the documentation website and verify response formats. Another feature that these tools provide is a way whereby the documentation code can sync with the application code to provide real-time updates to the API documentation based on live changes made to the codebase.
