# System Design

The design of the system incorperates multiple technologies and platforms to meet the requirements of the application. As specified, the application must possess a means to commission data across a number of components. Many factors have been taken into consideration during the planning process of this project and the following section describes in detail how the technologies utilised interact with one another.

## Decentralised applications
The approach of decentralised computing was applied using application program interfaces to provide information. These peripheral applications are autonomous to the central chat bot application and are hosted independently from the main application instance. Each API developed provides a specific type of information and runs on their own individual server hosted on Heroku. This proves highly beneficial in a case that if one application fails, it does not distrupt the rest of the system. Three applications have been implemented to provide information in correlation with the main chat bot application. Each of these administer data about gym information, library information and real time bus information.
Firstly, the bus API involves extracting parameterised values sent from the primary application. These values are then used to send a request to the Public transport predictions and schedules RTPI REST Web Services API and, in turn, composes the response data to a human-like response. The bus API then sends the data back in a JSON format to the central application. Suitably, no database is intergrated within this API as it uses dynamic data that is retrieved by the RTPI RESTful API.
In contrast, the gym and library API's use routing to specify the type of data needed. Each route is used to extract data from a NoSQL MonogoDB database hosted on mLab. These are static JSON documents that store information specific to the route specified in the API request from the main app.

