\mainmatter

# Introduction

Chatbots, whilst not a new technology, have gained considerable notoriety in recent times. This up-surge in interest from developers has come in lieu of some of the worlds largest messaging platforms opening up their applications to developers to deploy their chatbots and have them exist as part of their application ecosystem. This project will explore these new opportunities and aim to give a comprehensive oversight into what software development decisions to consider in order to implement a chatbot application. The report will begin by analysing relevant literature in this area and by providing the reader with the necessary elements in order to understand exactly what a chatbot is, their history, their current application use-cases today and a thematic overview of why they are relevant, accessible to developers and why chatbots present a positive learning opportunity for this project. Additionally, this report will outline the current methodologies and types of technology that are both required and recommended by developers in order to successfully implement a chatbot. The system requirements and specification section aims to provide a distinct vision on how the team arrived at a feature set for the chatbot and how these decisions where supported by surveys carried out. Furthermore, this section will provide an overview and explanation of the technologies and tools chosen by the developers supported by reasons as to why the technologies chosen were the adequate choice for this application. The system design section will cover how the system was designed architecturally and , because of the applications distributed nature, how each participant within the system exchanges instructions and data with the support of common application use cases. The implementation section will explore how the application was developed in areas in which where integral to the overall functionality of the application supported by code examples. Moreover, the testing and evaluation section will outline how each node in the system was tested to affirm its functionality and what tools were used to strengthen this process. Finally, this study is concluded with some closing remarks and key areas of interest should further work commence on this project.

