## Platforms
The following section shall touch upon the appointed platforms used in the process of development, and go in to detail about some of the terminologies and platform specific phraseology concering thes platforms. Additionally, it will describe the benefits, limitations and neccessities of the chosen platforms

### Heroku
Heroku is an online Platform as a service (PaaS). A PaaS can be defined as a service that allows for developers to deploy applications to the cloud without needed to take into consideration of hardware or software. Heroku differs from it's competitors because developers on Heroku don't purchase managing software or server instances. Instead, the code that a developer wishes to publish is pushed to a git repository and deployed instantaneously. This proves benificial in the fact that a version control system is in place, which provides a means for applications to be rolled back to previous versions should they need to. There is also five major reasons why Heroku is a preferable service to use for application development (Upreti, 2013). Firstly, Heroku required minimal prior knowledge of platform terminologies, in regards to git commands, in turn making it very easy for developers to acquaint themselves with the environment. Another prominent reason for the utilisation of Heroku is integrity. Heroku is built on Amazons Web Services, which is known for their high uptime rate (Upreti, 2013). Heroku is also provided with vast amounts of documentation on how to use the platform, and also consists of a large community of developers. The fourth reason is the variety of application types given to the developers by Heroku. Heroku supports a wide range of programming languages to be deployed on to it's service, including JavaScript, Ruby, PHP and python. Lastly, economy is a outstanding incentive for using Heroku as it allows a free plan for developers to deploy applications, but with limitations. There are a number of terminologies to be aquainted with when working with Heroku. A singular instance of an application running on Heruko is referred as a dyno. Each dyno,on a free plan, consists of a quad core central processing unit, 512 Megabytes of random access memory (RAM) and 550 free dynos hours per month (Heroku, 2017). To prevent redundant consumption of hours, the free plan provides Dyno sleeping, where the application goes into a sleeping state after thirty minutes without receiving any HTTP requests. This plan proves beneficial to the proposed project as it allows for cheap deployment, and is also suitable for scale of the application being developed.
Heroku also provides an add-on service, whereby fully maintained infrastructures for third-party applications are provided for developers. These third-party add-ons build upon the existent Heroku platform to provide a range of services for applications (Heroku, 2017). This enables developers to utilise existing database storage capabilities best suited for their applications without the need of general maintenance. Some examples include Redis and SQL storage such as Compose MongoDB, Heroku Redis, JawsDB MySql and Heroku Postgres.The Heroku toolbelt a package that consists of a of the Heroku CLI, Git and Foreman. These tools are used by the Heroku environment in order to deploy applications to the cloud. The Foreman package in a command line utility used for running applications that use Procfiles (Heroku, 2017) and allows developers to test applications locally on their machine. The toolbelt also include the necessary Heroku commands for remote version control deployment. Unlike regular git commands that deploy code to a remote repository on GitHub, the toolbelt possesses it's very own command's to push code to a Heroku repository. See command below:

```
    git add .
    git commit -m "message"
    git push heroku master
```
