### Facebook Messenger

One of the worlds leading social media sites, Facebook, has opened its platform for developers to build upon its existing infrastructure. The Facebook Messenger app has quickly grown to be the most popular mobile app in the world. Facebook's Newsroom website states that there is "1.23 billion daily active users on average for December 2016". The use of this platform gives a great advantage to developers as it provides an pre-existing congregation of users. Developing applications for multiple platform types such as IPhone, Android or Blackberry becomes redundant as the Facebook Messenger application already has a large community. A number of tools have been release by Facebook to allow developers to utilise its resources, send data and harvest profiles information to provide better user experience, especially in the case of developing chat bots. The Facebook Graph API is an application program interface that allows for a applications to connect to the Facebook Messenger Service. This is done through the use of a webhook. A webhook enables applications running on a server to subscribe and listen for an event to happen. In this case, an event would be a HTTP Post request is invoked to the callback URL (Webhook) when user interacting with the application triggers an event. For example: send a message or a picture. Real-time updates with the use of a webhook can allow an application to cache data or updates immediately. This approach removes the need for polling the Facebook servers continuously which can reduce performance, in turn, making the application more reliable and decrease load times. Other additional features the Graph API includes are the sending and receiving JSON using a HTTP request using the POST methods. This sends a response to facebook servers using the a page access token generated by Facebook. 

```
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
        "recipient": {
            "id": "USER_ID"
        },
        "message": {
            "text": "hello, world!"
        }
    }' "https://graph.facebook.com/v2.6/me/messages?access_token=PAGE_ACCESS_TOKEN"
```

The JSON snippet as shown above demonstrates a post to the graph API sending parameters of the user who should receive the message, and the message that will be sent to the user. Facebook handles this JSON response accordingly to update the UI the user is viewing, be it a phone application or through computer.
