### Git and Github

Git is a version control system (VCS) used for collaborative development of code. A copy of the source code and other essential assets are stored in what is known as a repository. This repository, also known as a repo, is tracked and maintained securely should the team or developer roll back on to a previous version of an application. Git is also accompanied with the an online graphical interface called GitHub that allows team members to review, analyse and track repositories. GitHub provides a number of additional services such as graph representations of commit's to a repository, online documentation using the GitHub pages service, visual portrayal of code differences between separate commits and issue tracking, where users can collaborate, provide insight and help solve problems that may arise during code development.

### GitHub integration on Heroku
Although Heroku provides remote repositories for source code be stored, the option for GitHub integration is also permitted. This allows for developers to use a GitHub repository on their own account, or in a GitHub organization, to deploy applications to GitHub without the need of the Heroku Toolbelt (Heroku, 2017). Should the developer or team decide to enable automatic deployment on their application, a user can commit changed to the GitHub remote repository and it is then deployed to Heroku. In result, this is beneficial in this case as it allows for multiple team members to review the changes made to the application online and, in turn, speeding up the development process.
