## Tools

A wide range of tools and technologies have been considered and evaluated during the planning process of the proposed project. Each having similarities and differences, strengths and disadvantages and  fundamental necessities for a project of this scale. The following sections will describe in detail the affirmed tools used, their features and why they have been chosen ahead of their competitors.

### Node.js

Node.js is a server side platform that is typically utilised for server side applications. Node.js expands upon the JavaScript language to give additional functionalities and advantages for applications. There are a few core aspects why Node.js is a desirable platform to use for development of the project. As it is built upon the Google V8 Javascript engine which consists of the V8 interpreter and compiler, it is very efficient and is capable of fast execution times. Secondly, it is event driven and asynchronous. This means that all the application program interfaces of node are non-blocking, and loops continuously, waiting for an event to occur. In the case of an event, a callback function is invoked and code is executed. It also only uses one execution thread to serve as the backbone. This makes the execution of a Node.js application lightweight and efficient. In addition, Node.js also accompanied by the Node Package Manager (npm). The npm is a command line client which enables programmers to pre-existing code packages known as Node Modules. This approach aids in speeding up development as it eliminates the need for programmers writing code for a certain functionality when the dependency can be implemented easily and efficiently. The modules are stored on remote repositories that are searchable using the NPM website. Although chatbot development is achievable in a range of programming language, Node.js JavaScript proves to be the most suitable as it proficient in server-client communication. As well as being reliable, it's speed is a preeminent advantage for real-time application such as a chatbot.
