### API.ai

API.ai is Google's natural language processing (NLP) platform. API.ai provides an interface for highly sophisticated conversations with a chat bot. This is done through the means of natural language understanding (NLU) that involves taking an unstructured input from a human, and reorganise it into a structured form that is understandable to a machine, and in turn, the machine triggers an event based on that input (Bryan, 2016). When an input is received, API.ai converts the input to what is called "actionable data" and returns a JSON object output. API.ai also consists of a dialog management system that uses computational linguistics to study the context and intent of the input, and allows the developer to regulate how the conversational flow should be directed.  API.ai also uses machine learning (ML) to train the bot to understand intents of inputs and determine a correct and suitable output. An Agent (the API.ai terminology for the chat bot) uses ML to learn from data provided by the user and builds a model for evaluating and determining correct responses accordingly. This model is unique for every agent (API.ai, 2017). To ensure that responses are accurate, API.ai provides a training tool that allow developers to analyse conversation logs with the agent being tested, and assign intents for sentences with unexpected wording or structure. Furthermore, there are a few terminologies that are associated with the API.ai platform. Entities are objects that are used to extract paramaterised value data from natural inputs. Entities come in three forms. There are System entities, which are defined by the API.ai platform. This entity if used for popular concepts and consolidates common attributes like colour, date, numbers, location etc. Secondly, are the developer defined entities. These are agent entities that are produced by the developer. The developer-mapping entity type can allow the developer to specify synonyms. Natural language provides multiple ways to say something with the same meaning, for example: a Car entity could be synonymous to vehicle, or BMW or even automobile. The developer-enum type are entities that do not have a mapping of reference value (API.ai, 2017). Developer composite entities are entities that contain an aggregation of other entities with the same aliases. For example: a composite entity for a car's ```Drive``` function could contain multiple other enum entities, Like ``` Accelerate``` and ```indicate```.
 Lastly, there are the User entities. These entities are specified by the user. an example of this would be a user's playlist, because usually playlists of songs are specific to and are made by each user (API.ai, 2017). The second eminent term involved in the API.ai platform are actions. An action is the route that application takes when an intent specified by the user is given as input. Actions can be provided with parameterised values that can be extracted. Examples given by developers in intents containing the specific words can be given an action and a value. This is a valuable functionality when specifying something like quantity. An example of this would be a user asking an agent to order "one" item instead of ordering "five". The value is extracted from the user input and synchronized with the conversation.
